SequelMariaDB Enumeration and Database Discovery Case Study

Objective

Perform service enumeration against a target host to identify exposed database services, establish access, enumerate available databases, and analyze accessible data.

Target Information

Target IP: 10.129.72.199

Platform: Hack The Box (HTB)

Tools Used:

Nmap
MySQL Client
Linux Terminal
Phase 1: Network Reconnaissance

An Nmap service and version detection scan was performed against the target host.

nmap -sC -sV 10.129.72.199
Findings
Port	Service	Status
3306/TCP	MySQL / MariaDB	Open

The scan revealed an exposed database service running on TCP port 3306.

Phase 2: Service Enumeration

Further investigation identified the database service as MariaDB.

Version Information
Protocol Version: 10
Version: 5.5.5-10.3.27-MariaDB-0+deb10u1
Analysis
Component	Description
5.5.5	MySQL compatibility marker
10.3.27	Actual MariaDB version
deb10u1	Debian package version

This information provided insight into the database environment and operating system packaging.

Phase 3: Database Access

A connection attempt was made using the MySQL client.

mysql -h 10.129.72.199 -u root -p --skip-ssl
Parameter Explanation
Option	Purpose
-h	Target host
-u	Username
-p	Password prompt
--skip-ssl	Disable SSL negotiation

The connection to the MariaDB service was successfully established.

Phase 4: Privilege Verification

Once connected, account information and permissions were reviewed.

SELECT USER();
SELECT CURRENT_USER();
SHOW GRANTS;
Purpose
Identify authenticated account
Verify effective database privileges
Determine accessible resources
Phase 5: Database Enumeration

Available databases were enumerated.

SHOW DATABASES;

Among the discovered databases, an interesting database named:

htb

was identified for further investigation.

The database was selected:

USE htb;
Phase 6: Table Enumeration

The contents of the selected database were examined.

SHOW TABLES;
Tables Discovered
config
users

The presence of a configuration table suggested the possibility of sensitive application information.

Phase 7: Data Review

The configuration table was queried.

SELECT * FROM config;
Findings

The table contained application configuration data and challenge-related information.

This confirmed that the exposed database permitted access to sensitive records without adequate restrictions.

Results
Identified exposed MariaDB service.
Established database connectivity.
Verified account privileges.
Enumerated available databases.
Discovered application-specific tables.
Retrieved configuration data from the database.
Security Weaknesses Identified
Exposed Database Service

The MariaDB service was accessible over the network.

Excessive Database Access

The authenticated account had sufficient privileges to enumerate databases and tables.

Sensitive Information Exposure

Configuration data was accessible and contained valuable information.

Skills Demonstrated
Network Reconnaissance
Service Enumeration
Database Enumeration
MariaDB Assessment
SQL Querying
Information Gathering
Linux Command Line
Security Analysis

Conclusion

The assessment identified an exposed MariaDB service running on TCP port 3306. Through systematic enumeration, database access was established, privileges were reviewed, and available databases were explored. Further investigation revealed sensitive configuration information stored within the application database. This exercise demonstrated practical database enumeration techniques commonly used during penetration testing and security assessments.
